# University of Birmingham Beamer Template

This repository hosts a beamer template that matches the University of Birmingham's current brand guidelines.

## Usage

### Getting started

Load the theme in the preamble:

```latex
\makeatletter
\def\input@path{{template/}}
\makeatother
\usetheme[]{uob}
```

### Color modes

The theme supports dark and light modes via a beamer option:

```latex
\usetheme[dark]{uob}  % Dark background, white text (default)
\usetheme[light]{uob} % White background, black text
```

### A note on fonts

As per the University of Birmingham's [Brand Portal](https://brand.birmingham.ac.uk/), there are two main typefaces: [Manrope](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Manrope) (sans-serif) and [Larken](https://ellenlufftype.com/larken/) (serif). Manrope is available under the [SIL OPEN FONT LICENSE Version 1.1](https://openfontlicense.org/open-font-license-official-text/); as such, we have provided a local copy. Larken, however, is a licensed font, and cannot be provided.

The fall-back fonts are Arial (sans-serif) and Times New Roman (serif). Times New Roman is a poor choice as it does not match the modern design of the branding. As such, we have included [Marcellus](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Marcellus?preview.script=Latn): a font closer to Larken and under the SIL OPEN FONT LICENSE Version 1.1, whilst still remaining accessible.

Should you have the licensing for Larken, you are free to upload and use that by modifying [`beamerfontthemeuob.sty`](template/beamerfontthemeuob.sty).

## Updating this template

You are welcome to modify and update this template. If you feel you have made a substatial change that better aligns with the brand guidelines, please raise a pull request.

## Generative AI declaration

Generative AI (namely, Copilot under the University) has been used to help debug some issues along the way. Material generated by AI has been checked to ensure correctness.

## License

Please refer to the [license](LICENSE). Please note that this template is an unofficial tool. The University of Birmingham name and logos are trademarks of the University of Birmingham. Use of these assets must comply with the University’s Brand Guidelines. This license applies only to the underlying LaTeX code.

## Maintainers

This repository is maintained by [Joe Preece](mailto:joseph.preece@glasgow.ac.uk).
